---
title: Humane Interviewing
author: Dave Rolsky
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=862
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A few more notes on the interview process.

**Don&#8217;t ask pointless questions.** For our most recent round of interviews, I went through the list of potential questions with another interviewer asking what we hoped to learn from each question. If we couldn&#8217;t figure that out, we removed the question. Sometimes we realized that what we wanted to learn was worthwhile but we needed to rewrite the question to achieve that goal. Don&#8217;t ask questions because they&#8217;re fun for you or vaguely interesting or because someone asked you the same thing once. Remember that being interviewed can be stressful for many people, so don&#8217;t ask questions that don&#8217;t provide value to you.

**Keep it conversational and friendly.** This goes back to interview stress. Introduce yourselves at the start of the interview. If you&#8217;re funny, be a little funny so they know you&#8217;re a human (PG-rated only, of course). Encourage them to ask questions as you go. Follow up on things they say with related questions rather than robotically sticking to a pre-determined list. If they give a particularly good answer tell them so.

**Give them time.** Try not to interrupt the candidate. Let them take a breath to think if they need to. Say &#8220;thank you&#8221; or &#8220;that was interesting&#8221; after an answer so you don&#8217;t just rush from question to question. Also make sure to give them a block of time to ask their own questions (I usually do this in the last 15 minutes of a 1 hour interview).